+++
draft = "false"
title = "How to starve the presentation vultures (part 1)"
tags = ["Public Speaking", "Fear" ]
news = ["general"]
date = "2019-02-12"
author = "Pierre Morsa"
banner = "/img/news/"
+++
Maybe you feel that your last presentation was a complete failure. You didn’t manage to shake off your nerves. You became confused. The client or your boss criticized you. Maybe you’ve been caught in a downward spiral for some time, each criticism making you lose confidence, and making the next presentation worse. I have good news for you: no matter what your situation is, this vicious circle can be broken, and you gain the necessary confidence to enjoy presenting.

## Haters are going to hate
Before I explain how, let’s put things into context. Haters are going to hate. Some people have a psychological problem, and are there to put others down. This can be to mask their own insecurities and problems, or it can be because they like to bully others. Unfortunately, those types seem to thrive in certain work environments. Stop feeling guilty right now because of these people. They are the ones who have a problem, not you. If that describes your boss, he’s not behaving like the leader he could be. If that describes your client, he does not behave like the competent client he could be. I’m fine with people giving me blunt, critical but honest feedback, even if it may be hard to hear. But I won’t accept people using criticism and attacks to put others down, and nobody should. I will also give you another secret: these vultures are really not that strong. They build their power on charm, fear and submission. But they are hated by everyone. Their subordinates. Their fellow managers or C-level executives. Even their bosses hate them. At the first opportunity everybody will jump ship and abandon them. Once you start to understand that, they are really not that fearsome anymore.

I started by addressing this point because, in my experience, this is really *the* factor that makes people doubt themselves and lose their presentation powers. In a secure environment, you feel alright, but as soon as you see the shadows of the vultures circling above your head, you lose confidence. Vultures? Yes, that’s exactly what they are! They are scavengers, they like to prey on perceived weaknesses and vulnerabilities, but they’re really not that courageous. To starve the vultures, you just need to show you are alive and ready to stand firm. How? By strengthening your anchor in your vital space.

The goal of the vultures is to reduce your vital space or push you out of it. The vultures are circling around your vital space, they are always trying to invade it by stealing your energy and confidence. It’s only a facade. If you remain anchored, your vital space will protect you and you will be able to fend off all threats with calm and confidence. It will become a natural part of your presentations. Being able to jump out of your vital space is useful, but don’t do it before you have the confidence to do so and learn to do it without turning into a vulture.

How can you strengthen your vital space anchor? If your presentation has an objective, a clear message, it is much easier to use it as an anchor. Let’s imagine for example that the key message is that your presentation is about a new software service that offers necessary services to protect your IT systems. But the vultures—who don’t really understand what it’s about—are out to eat the tech guy. They question every choice, every detail, every functionality. The presentation turns into an endless discussion of details. If that happens, re-anchor the presentation. Remind them of the objective, the message: “Yes, we can discuss about whether we can add the animated dog on the configuration page later, but this is secondary. What is really important is that we guarantee that we have the right level of protection, and this is the best tool to do it.”

Bullies also like to behave like spoiled children. They throw themselves on the ground, kicking and screaming (mostly figuratively, I haven’t seen someone actually throw himself on the ground—that would have been interesting—but I heard plenty of people screaming to try to cover the sound of their incompetence). They won’t take no as an answer. You know what? No is exactly the answer they need, with a short sentence explaining the consequences, no more. For example: “No, we cannot add this because this would increase the budget / increase the risk / increase delivery time.” The longer your justification is, the more it becomes self-justification, the weaker it becomes, the more mouth-watering you become to the vultures. Be sure to do this only for unjustified requests, not for legitimate concerns or needs. Instead of being the prey, you become the bully’s super nanny. You’re the adult in the room, anchored, with a good message to defend. When you do that, something funny happens. Most bullies instinctively understand they’re starting to look immature and are going to lose their power, and they calm down by themselves. Only the slower ones don’t get it. Be kind to them.

The vultures will also try to destabilize you with questions you don’t have the answer. Although not being able to answer any question means you’re not prepared properly (and in that case that’s your problem, not the bully’s problem), it’s perfectly fine and normal not to have 100% of the answers. Just say it. “I don’t have the answer, we will test it and I will come back to you.” See? That simple. You even behaved proactively by proposing to find the answer to the question.

These are only a few examples of the techniques you can use to get out of a presentation slump and gain confidence. Anybody willing to invest the time and effort can change and become a good presenter. This is also what a good coach can do for you. He can help you anchor yourself so Vultures will start starving and look elsewhere. He can help you learn to stay firm in hostile environments. He can help you become the good leader people want to follow.

